docs/docs/import-xlsx-from-g-drive.md, before:

---
title: Import XLXS from G Drive
description: "Overview of how data is imported from XLXS files that are stored in G drive"
layout: playbook_js
tags: [playbook]
---

This section covers the technical overview of uploading data into the data
platform from an xlsx spreadsheet stored in Google drive. For step by step instructions on how to do
this, refer to [Import XLXS from G Drive](../playbook/import-xlsx-from-g-drive)
guide.

The terraform module [`import_xlsx_file_from_g_drive`](https://github.com/LBHackney-IT/Data-Platform/tree/main/modules/import-xlsx-file-from-g-drive) will provision the following resources:

![import xlsx from g-drive](./images/import-xlsx-from-g-drive.png)

At deployment a single lambda will be deployed per file along side a glue job
and crawler provisioned for each worksheet that will be imported.

After deployed a CloudWatch trigger will invoke the copier lambda at 10 am daily.

The lambda will copy the specified file into the S3 landing zone bucket and
start all the glue jobs that will import data from the defined workbooks.

Upon a successful glue job run a crawler will be run and produce a data catalog
for the dataset.

Commit message:

Added clear guidance that Spark UI is used for debugging and logs are in S3

docs/docs/import-xlsx-from-g-drive.md, after:

---
title: Import XLXS from G Drive
description: "Overview of how data is imported from XLXS files that are stored in G drive"
layout: playbook_js
tags: [playbook]
---

This section covers the technical overview of uploading data into the data
platform from an xlsx spreadsheet stored in Google drive. For step by step instructions on how to do
this, refer to [Import XLXS from G Drive](../playbook/import-xlsx-from-g-drive)
guide.

The terraform module [`import_xlsx_file_from_g_drive`](https://github.com/LBHackney-IT/Data-Platform/tree/main/modules/import-xlsx-file-from-g-drive) will provision the following resources:

![import xlsx from g-drive](./images/import-xlsx-from-g-drive.png)

At deployment a single lambda will be deployed per file along side a glue job
and crawler provisioned for each worksheet that will be imported.

After deployed a CloudWatch trigger will invoke the copier lambda at 10 am daily.

The lambda will copy the specified file into the S3 landing zone bucket and
start all the glue jobs that will import data from the defined workbooks. 
Spark Web UI is used to monitior and debug the glue jobs. Every 30 seconds, 
AWS Glue flushes the Spark event logs to an S3 bucket titled Spark UI Bucket.

Upon a successful glue job run a crawler will be run and produce a data catalog
for the dataset.
