docs/docs/redshift.md, before:

---
title: Redshift - Creating users, databases and exposing data from Glue
description: ""
layout: playbook_js
tags: [playbook]
---

## Objective / Who is this for?

After this article, you should be able to

- Create a user in redshift
- Create a schema for your tables
- Grant permissions to a user to view the tables
- Make the connection with an AWS Glue database to see the data in the tables

## Prerequisites

In order to complete this article, you will need

- Permissions to configure Redshift
- Access to Amazon Redshift
- Access to Amazon Glue Databases

## Collection Structure

Unlike most Database services. Redshift has a three tier collection setup:

1. The top most tier is called a Database, a Database contains multiple Schemas
2. The second tier is called a Schema, a Schema contains multiple Tables
3. The final tier is called a Table, a Table contains multiple rows of data or references a location in S3

`Database -> Schema -> Table`

## Open Redshift Query Editor

Use the search bar at the top of AWS to search for Redshift. Then on the left, go to "Editor" then "Query Editor". You will enter the code here.

## Connect to the Database

You must have an open connection to see the tables.

## Create a User

To create a new user in Redshift, run the following command as a query:

```sql
CREATE USER {username} WITH PASSWORD '{password}';
```

Example:

```sql
CREATE USER housing_repairs WITH PASSWORD 'th1s1sANEx&mpl3';
```

## External Schema

Redshift Spectrum is able to access data in S3 that has been cataloged via AWS Glue by creating an external
schema. An external schema acts like a database but instead of holding the data within the redshift cluster it uses an
attached IAM role to read the data from S3.

### Adding an External Schema requirements

To create an External Schema you will need the name of the AWS Glue Database to be added. An IAM role that can be used
to read the data from S3 (A role has been included in the Data Platform) and a schema name that the database will be
displayed as.

## Finding the name of the AWS Glue Database to be added

Navigate to AWS Glue and retrieve the name of the database you want to expose in Redshift. The example below uses 'housing-repairs-raw-zone'.

## Finding the IAM Role details

Use the appropriate IAM role that you will find in the IAM console in AWS.

### Adding an External Schema

Execute the following SQL against the Redshift Cluster:

```
CREATE EXTERNAL SCHEMA {schema-name}
    FROM DATA CATALOG
    DATABASE '{aws-glue-database}'
    IAM_ROLE 'arn:aws:iam::{aws-account-id}:role/dataplatform-{environment}-redshift-role'
    CREATE EXTERNAL DATABASE IF NOT EXISTS;
```

Example:

```sql
CREATE EXTERNAL SCHEMA housing_repairs_raw_zone
    FROM DATA CATALOG
    DATABASE 'housing-repairs-raw-zone'
    IAM_ROLE 'arn:aws:iam::000000000000:role/dataplatform-stg-redshift-role'
    CREATE EXTERNAL DATABASE IF NOT EXISTS;
```

### Granting a User Access

For a user to be able to access an external schema, they must first be granted the temp permission on the containing
database. Execute the following SQL against the Redshift Cluster:

```sql
GRANT temp
	ON DATABASE {database-name}
    TO {username};
```

Example:

```sql
GRANT temp
	ON DATABASE data_platform
    TO housing_repairs;
```

Once a user has the temp permission of a specific database, they then need to be granted permissions on each External
Schema that they need access to. Run the following commands for each Schema:

```sql
GRANT USAGE
	ON SCHEMA {schema-name}
    TO {username};

GRANT SELECT
	ON ALL TABLES IN SCHEMA {schema-name}
    TO {username};
```

Example:

```sql
GRANT USAGE
	ON SCHEMA housing_repairs_raw_zone
    TO housing_repairs;

GRANT SELECT
	ON ALL TABLES IN SCHEMA housing_repairs_raw_zone
    TO housing_repairs;
```

### Storing the credentials of the created user in a parameters store

The password created for the user needs to be added to the record created by Terraform in the AWS Secret Manager.

### How do we know if it worked?

You will know if it has worked because the data will be visible in the redshift and via the redshift connectors in tools such as Qlik or Google Data Studio using the credentials in AWS Secret Manager.

### Related documents

https://lbhackney-it.github.io/Data-Platform-Playbook/playbook/connecting-to-other-tools/connecting-to-redshift-from-data-studio

Commit message:

update broken link on redshift technical docs page

docs/docs/redshift.md, after:

---
title: Redshift - Creating users, databases and exposing data from Glue
description: ""
layout: playbook_js
tags: [playbook]
---

## Objective / Who is this for?

After this article, you should be able to

- Create a user in redshift
- Create a schema for your tables
- Grant permissions to a user to view the tables
- Make the connection with an AWS Glue database to see the data in the tables

## Prerequisites

In order to complete this article, you will need

- Permissions to configure Redshift
- Access to Amazon Redshift
- Access to Amazon Glue Databases

## Collection Structure

Unlike most Database services. Redshift has a three tier collection setup:

1. The top most tier is called a Database, a Database contains multiple Schemas
2. The second tier is called a Schema, a Schema contains multiple Tables
3. The final tier is called a Table, a Table contains multiple rows of data or references a location in S3

`Database -> Schema -> Table`

## Open Redshift Query Editor

Use the search bar at the top of AWS to search for Redshift. Then on the left, go to "Editor" then "Query Editor". You will enter the code here.

## Connect to the Database

You must have an open connection to see the tables.

## Create a User

To create a new user in Redshift, run the following command as a query:

```sql
CREATE USER {username} WITH PASSWORD '{password}';
```

Example:

```sql
CREATE USER housing_repairs WITH PASSWORD 'th1s1sANEx&mpl3';
```

## External Schema

Redshift Spectrum is able to access data in S3 that has been cataloged via AWS Glue by creating an external
schema. An external schema acts like a database but instead of holding the data within the redshift cluster it uses an
attached IAM role to read the data from S3.

### Adding an External Schema requirements

To create an External Schema you will need the name of the AWS Glue Database to be added. An IAM role that can be used
to read the data from S3 (A role has been included in the Data Platform) and a schema name that the database will be
displayed as.

## Finding the name of the AWS Glue Database to be added

Navigate to AWS Glue and retrieve the name of the database you want to expose in Redshift. The example below uses 'housing-repairs-raw-zone'.

## Finding the IAM Role details

Use the appropriate IAM role that you will find in the IAM console in AWS.

### Adding an External Schema

Execute the following SQL against the Redshift Cluster:

```
CREATE EXTERNAL SCHEMA {schema-name}
    FROM DATA CATALOG
    DATABASE '{aws-glue-database}'
    IAM_ROLE 'arn:aws:iam::{aws-account-id}:role/dataplatform-{environment}-redshift-role'
    CREATE EXTERNAL DATABASE IF NOT EXISTS;
```

Example:

```sql
CREATE EXTERNAL SCHEMA housing_repairs_raw_zone
    FROM DATA CATALOG
    DATABASE 'housing-repairs-raw-zone'
    IAM_ROLE 'arn:aws:iam::000000000000:role/dataplatform-stg-redshift-role'
    CREATE EXTERNAL DATABASE IF NOT EXISTS;
```

### Granting a User Access

For a user to be able to access an external schema, they must first be granted the temp permission on the containing
database. Execute the following SQL against the Redshift Cluster:

```sql
GRANT temp
	ON DATABASE {database-name}
    TO {username};
```

Example:

```sql
GRANT temp
	ON DATABASE data_platform
    TO housing_repairs;
```

Once a user has the temp permission of a specific database, they then need to be granted permissions on each External
Schema that they need access to. Run the following commands for each Schema:

```sql
GRANT USAGE
	ON SCHEMA {schema-name}
    TO {username};

GRANT SELECT
	ON ALL TABLES IN SCHEMA {schema-name}
    TO {username};
```

Example:

```sql
GRANT USAGE
	ON SCHEMA housing_repairs_raw_zone
    TO housing_repairs;

GRANT SELECT
	ON ALL TABLES IN SCHEMA housing_repairs_raw_zone
    TO housing_repairs;
```

### Storing the credentials of the created user in a parameters store

The password created for the user needs to be added to the record created by Terraform in the AWS Secret Manager.

### How do we know if it worked?

You will know if it has worked because the data will be visible in the redshift and via the redshift connectors in tools such as Qlik or Google Data Studio using the credentials in AWS Secret Manager.

### Related documents

- [Connecting to the Redshift cluster from Google Data Studio][connecting-to-redshift-from-data-studio]

[connecting-to-redshift-from-data-studio]: ../playbook/querying-and-analysing-data/connecting-to-redshift-from-data-studio
