docs/playbook/snapshot-to-s3.md, before:

---
title: Exporting snapshot to s3
description: "Exporting a snpashot of an rds instance to the DataPlatform landing zone"
layout: playbook_js
tags: playbook
---

## Add rds instance id to the environamnet variables

- Ensure you have access to the [Data Platform repository](https://github.com/LBHackney-IT/data-platform/)
- [Clone the the repository](https://docs.github.com/en/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/cloning-a-repository)
- Login to the AWS management console for the account where the rds instance is (for UPRN this will be `ProductionAPIs`)
- Search for `RDS` and select
- Select `DB Instances` in the Resources section
- Copy the DB identifier of the database you want to export
- You will now need to add this rds instance id environment variable to the as an environment variable in the Data PLatform repositry. To do this, Naviagte to `prod.tfvars` in the `config/terraform` directory. Add the name of the rds instance id to the `rds_instance_ids`. Ensure each instance id is comma seperated as shown below:

```
rds_instance_ids = ["rds-instance-1", "rds-instance-2"]
```

## Release a new version of the data platform

- Once you have added the rds instance id as an enviroenment variable, you are ready to release a new version of the data platform. To do this [Create a pull request](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request)
- Ask the Data platform team to review the pull request

## Create a snapshot of the relevant rds instance

Once your pull request has been approved and released to production, you want to log in to the relevant AWS account to create a snapshot

- Search for `RDS` and select
- On the sidebar, click on `Snapshots`
- Select `Take snapshot` on the Manual tab
- On `Take a Snapshot` page, select the rds instance id as your DB instance, pick an appropriate name for your snapshot and click `Take snapshot`
- The creation of the snapshot will automatically trigger the export to the Data Platform landing zone bucket
  - You can view all the exports to S3 in the `Exports in Amazon S3` tab
- This process will take about half an hour to complete

Commit message:

Update exporting snapshot to S3 docs
The docs now includes instructions on how to edit the RDS environment variables in Github as opposed to cloning the repo down and committing and pushing changes back up

Also added a note that this documentation is only for the Production and Staging API accounts

Co-authored-by: elena-vi <elena@madetech.com>
Co-authored-by: maysakanoni <maysa@madetech.com>

Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/madetech/academy20-hackney-hr-backend

docs/playbook/snapshot-to-s3.md, after:

---
title: Exporting snapshot to s3
description: "Exporting a snpashot of an rds instance to the DataPlatform landing zone"
layout: playbook_js
tags: playbook
---

## Add rds instance id to the environmnet variables

- Ensure you have access to the [Data Platform repository](https://github.com/LBHackney-IT/data-platform/)
- Login to the AWS management console for the account where the rds instance is located (for UPRN this will be `ProductionAPIs`)
  - Currently, the deployment is set up to only deploy to the Staging and Production API accounts. This will be refactored to allow us to release into multiple accounts
- Search for `RDS` and select
- Select `DB Instances` in the Resources section
- Copy the `DB identifier` of the database you want to export
- You will now need to add this as an RDS instance id environment variable in the Data Platform repository. 
  - To do this, Navigate to [`prod.tfvars`](https://github.com/LBHackney-IT/Data-Platform/blob/main/config/terraform/prod.tfvars#L12) in the `config/terraform` directory and click the pencil icon to edit the file. 
  - Add the name of the rds instance id to the `rds_instance_ids`. Ensure each instance id is comma separated as shown below:
```
rds_instance_ids = ["rds-instance-1", "rds-instance-2"]
```
  - Once the rds instance id has been added, navigate to the bottom of the page and add a commit message and an optional description
  - Select the radio button labelled `Create a new branch for this commit and start a pull request.` and then give the new branch a name
  - Select `Propose changes`

## Release a new version of the data platform

- After completing the last step in the section above, a new page `Open a pull request` will be displayed
- Populate the pull request template and select `Create pull request`
- Your pull request is now ready for review by the Data platform team, and your changes will be applied once they have approved and merged your pull request

## Create a snapshot of the relevant rds instance

Once your pull request has been approved and released to production, you will need to log in to the relevant AWS account to create a snapshot

- Search for `RDS` and select
- On the sidebar, click on `Snapshots`
- Select `Take snapshot` on the Manual tab
- On `Take a Snapshot` page, select the rds instance id as your DB instance, pick an appropriate name for your snapshot and click `Take snapshot`
- The creation of the snapshot will automatically trigger the export to the Data Platform landing zone bucket. 
  - You can view all the exports to S3 in the `Exports in Amazon S3` tab. Initially, this will be exported to an RDS export storage S3 bucket in the same account and then a subsequent Lambda will copy it over to the Data Platform landing zone S3 bucket
- This process will take about half an hour to complete
